# The Fungal Abomination and Lazora the Witch

## The Fungal Abomination

### Load rate

The flail this super mob loads is once per reboot, but the mob itself is
standard.

### Location

Deep in the maze of woods east from the Orc Caves. Look for a Crossroads in
Mirkwood, then go all south, west until you can go south, then work your way
southeast. The entrance is a hidden door named `packedmoss`.

### Difficulty

Solo-able by a conjurer type, although it takes an enormous amount of time.
Recommended is a metal-clad buffer, three or more hitters, and a cleric. Cannot
be mentalled. This mob switches targets. Not bashable.

### Strategy

The effective area this super mob resides in consists of three rooms. The
outermost has a decent sized nobash troll below the door leading in; this troll
will respawn every zone reset, and should be killed at each one to reduce the
risk to the group, who may be trying to leave these three rooms if the run goes
badly. The middle room is up from the troll; it has two uruk mobs that close,
but do not lock, the door down. These also respawn every zone reset, and should
be killed at each one for the same reason given for the aforementioned troll.
The last room is north from these two uruks; it contains the fungal abomination,
Lazora the Witch, and an uruk taskmaster.

It is recommended that the group kill the uruk taskmaster first, since this mob
dies fairly quickly, and is the only mob in the room that bashes. Next should
be the fungal abomination; it is unwise to kill Lazora the Witch before the
fungal abomination dies, since the fungal abomination will rescue her. The last
killed should be Lazora the Witch.

This room is fairly demanding of the buffer, not only because of the damage
being dealt, but also because Lazora and the fungal abomination are likely to
hit someone other than the buffer when the group enters. So, the buffer must
be attentive, and rescue whomever gets hit by either of these two, immediately.
Once the buffer has all three mobs fighting him, the fight should proceed in
the order mentioned above. The hitter with highest OB should keep Lazora
bashed; this mob is very hard to bash, and it is recommended that the cleric
confuse this mob even before the group fights her, simply to facilitate the
bashing. A secondary basher should keep the uruk taskmaster bashed until it
dies. It should be pointed out here that Lazora is a mage and will cast
Uruk-lhuth spells. As of this writing, the `shout of pain` spell has been
removed from the list of spells she will cast since it could engage the other
mobs.

### Reward

[an iridescent flail](/items/weapons.md#an-iridescent-flail) on the fungal
abomination

## Lazora

### Load rate

Once per reboot.

### Location

See the [Fungal Abomination location](#location).

### Difficulty

Solo-able by metal clad mages. Otherwise, see the [difficulty](#difficulty) for
the Fungal Abomination.

### Strategy

Mages can easily cast flee Lazora. However, it's important to keep `shield` up
and health high since the Fungal Abomination wil rescue Lazora and the Uruk
Task Master can bash. Otherwise, see the [strategy](#strategy) for the Fungal
Abomination.

### Reward

[a twisted, black stick](/items/weapons.md#a-twisted-black-stick) on Lazora.
