# The Enormous Icy Spider

## Load rate

Standard.

## Location

The tomb this spider resides in is a bit west and a zone or two north of the
Ranger Camp. The key required to enter this tomb is much farther west, in the
troll tunnels that lead between the Goblin Gate area and the area farthest west
from the Ranger Camp.

## Difficulty

The troll loading the key to the tomb is arguably harder than the spider
itself. Regardless, both can be soloed by a mage without difficulty; a decent
warrior paired with someone who can fear is also sufficient. The spider cannot
be mentalled, although the troll loading the key to the tomb can be. Both
spider and troll switch targets. Both spider and troll are bashable.

## Strategy

In the troll tunnels that lead between the Goblin Gate area and the area
furthest west from the Ranger Camp is a troll by the name of Gorgurakh, with
two grey mountain troll guards. Outside the door to his room is a panicked
troll, that closes said door; kill this panicked troll first, so you will not
have to worry about the door. You need to kill Gorgurakh for his key; the most
efficient strategy is simply to have the cleric fear him out--sanctuary may be
necessary)--then kill him while he is solo in the tunnels.

With Gorgurakh's key, it is time to find the tomb with the enormous, icy
spider. This is located a bit west and a couple zones north of the Ranger
Camp, with a hidden entrance `goldenstone`. Once inside, the spider is located
behind a hidden `iceblock` at the eastern end; this door requires a key that
loads on one of the icy skeletons. Once you have this key you can access the
icy spider itself; it has two more icy skeletons in its room. All three of
these mobs die fairly easily, although if the group is small the cleric may
want to fear the skeletons out and kill the spider while it is solo. In the
spider's corpse is a key to the hidden exit `chamberdoor` behind which is the
chest that loads the silver coin.

## Reward

[a silver inscribed medallion](/items/clothing.md#a-silver-inscribed-medallion)
in the chest above the spider.
