# The Kraken Zone

## Location

Beneath the Garannon Lake, which is north of the valley bowl. To get there,
head west of the valley bowl, turn north, then circle back east. One-way in.

## Hideous Amoeba

### Load rate

Standard, except the zone has to be clear of players to reset.

### Location

A few rooms southeast of the Kraken. Swim is not necessary.

### Difficulty

Solo-able by any class, but a ranger is recommended to butcher. Cannot be
mentaled. Cannot be bashed.

### Strategy

Butchering the amoeba can be difficult since in addition to fumbling, you can
butcher items besides a jade key. It is recommended for a single player to
obtain the key before bringing a group.

### Rewards

A jade key necessary to unlock the chest and collect the rewards from killing
[The Kraken](#the-kraken).

## Slug

### Load rate

Standard.

### Location

This mob roams the entire Kraken zone.

### Difficulty

Solo-able by any class but mystic. The slug hits fairly hard and cannot be
bashed or mentaled.

### Strategy

If the slug is more than a couple of rooms from Kraken, it can be safely
ignored. Otherwise, it should be killed prior to engaging Kraken to keep the
party safe. If it is in the same room as the Kraken, the buffer should engage
it and the kraken while the hitters kill it first.

## The Kraken

### Load rate

Standard, except the zone has to be clear of players to reset.

### Location

### Difficulty

Two or three mages using chill ray makes for a simple run. Solo-able by
conjurer type class or a mage, but it takes very long without poison.
Otherwise, a buffer, cleric, and one or more hitters are required. Cannot be
mentalled. This mob switches targets. Not bashable.

### Strategy

In the Kraken's room are two other mobs - small tentacles that can bash. When
killing with mages, prep/flee these mobs first. When doing in a group, have the
buffer enage the kraken while the hitters kill the tentacles. The tentacles do
negligible damage, so the buffer need not worry about rescuing the hitters at
this point. Once the tentacles are dead, the generic super mob strategy is all
that is required to kill the kraken itself. One note about this area, the room
with the Kraken has only two flee-able exits, and one of these is a water room.
Therefore, it is best to swim or carry a boat when doing this super mob, as one
or two failed flees--which can happen if you try to flee into a water room and
fail the swim check--can mean death. Boats load at the entrance to the Kraken's
zone.

### Rewards

A chest north of the Kraken may load each of the following. The chest is
unlocked with [a jade key](#hideous-amoeba).

* [an old green cloak](/items/clothing.md#an-old-green-cloak)
* [a fine, silver shield](/items/shields.md#a-fine-silver-shield)
* [a pair of supple leather boots](/items/clothing.md#a-pair-of-supple-leather-boots)
