# The Mumak

## Load rate

At most once per reboot.

## Location

Taur-en-Faroth.

## Difficulty

Recommended is a metal-clad buffer, four or more hitters, and a cleric. It may
be helpful to have a second cleric. More hitters are highly encouraged. Cannot
be mentalled. This mob switches targets. Not bashable. This mob hunts. This mob
has a scripted attack that can instantly kill anyone fighting it, although the
chance is extremely small.

## Strategy

Wandering the forest of Faroth, if the mumak loaded, is a group of Haradrim
hunters. Find these, `say follow`, then find the mumak. Be ready to start the
fight as soon as you enter its room. If you have the hunters with you, they
will instantly attack it and you do not want to delay while they get killed.

The primary point regarding this super mob is that it is in a forest with
random exits. This means that the cleric cannot hallucinate/flee because he
will not be able to get back to the correct room in a timely fashion. As of
this writing, no room has been found in Faroth that contains a small enough
loop in each direction to allow a cleric to hallucinate/flee. Instead, the
cleric must hallucinate, confuse, then hallucinate/disengage. Because of this
extra delay between hallucinates, it may be wise not to bother with poison.
After all, if you fail to kill the mumak in one round, you will no longer have
the benefit of the Haradrim hunters, which can make or break a run. If a second
cleric is available, it can help to reduce the delay between hallucinate casts.

### The Hunters

These mobs hit very hard and provide a significant amount of hitting power to
the group trying to kill the mumak. This is why the presence or absence of
these hunters can make or break a run. Without the damage they do, you may find
you simply can't kill the mob. That being said, the generic super mob strategy,
with the modification to the cleric's job as mentioned above, is all that is
required here.

### Notes

Metal is absolutely required, as the mumak hits incredibly hard and fast. It
may be a good idea for the buffer to rescue the Haradrim as well, for exactly
this reason; they die fairly quickly.

Make sure everyone has exits for Faroth at hand in case the run goes sour.
This mob hunts and if you have it chasing you, you're not going to have the
time to stand still while you try to get someone to tell you how to get to
safety.

As mentioned above, this mob has a scripted attack that can instantly kill
anyone fighting it. The death comes with no experience loss, but item decay
will work normally.

## Reward

One of the following:

* [an ivory mallet](/items/weapons.md#an-ivory-mallet) from the shard of tusk
	in the mumak's corpse
* [a spiked ivory club](/items/weapons.md#a-spiked-ivory-club) butcherable
	from the larger shard of tusk
