# Muzgash the Emerald

## Load rate

Standard, although the quest that aids in killing him has a low load rate.

## Location

A bit east and several zones north from the Old Forest Road Over a Streambed.
Look for a shack.

## Difficulty

When done using the corresponding quest, it can be soloed by almost any class.
When done without using the quest--such as after the quest has failed)--a
metal-clad buffer, two or more hitters, and a cleric are recommended.

This is an Uruk-Lhuth zone and door guards respond to knocking. Muzgash can
easily be soloed by a Lhuth mage.

## Strategy

In the shack, past a hidden `shelves` is a tortured spirit. `say revenge` to
him and he will speak about how he was slain before his time, and drop a green
orb. Take this, go out of the shack and go south until you find a huge tree in
the room name. There is a hidden `bark` here, leading down to an undead hound
and some rats. Hold the orb, `say revenge` again and follow the hound as it
leads you to Muzgash. When the hound enters Muzgash's room, you need to follow
close behind, keeping the orb held. A corpse of an old man will appear and
fight Muzgash and his bodyguards. The corpse has a lot of hitpoints; make good
use of the time it spends serving as a buffer. If the corpse dies, it will not
appear again until Muzgash has been slain.

### Notes

A word about Muzgash himself, he is not overly large, but he has three uruk
bodyguards in his room. This room has only one exit, a hidden `thicktangle` and
one of the bodyguards closes, but does not lock, this door. If in a group, it
can be beneficial to have a warrior in metal bash the `thicktangle` right after
the hound enters and have the rest of the group follow and start the fight.
This way if the fight goes sour, fleeing will not be a problem.

The door north and down from Muzgash, the irongate, is not pickable, not
bashable and the doorguard, when alive, opens only for Uruk-Lhuths. If the
group dies to Muzgash, you will not be able to get back in until the spirit and
the hound respawn--which can take several zone resets--unless someone else
happens to have a spare key.

## Rewards

* [an emerald encrusted robe](/items/clothing.md#an-emerald-encrusted-robe)
* [a wicked black knife](/items/weapons.md#a-wicked-black-knife)
