# Super Mobs

## Table of Contents

1. [General Strategies](#general-strategies)
	1. [Forces of Light](#forces-of-light)
	1. [Forces of Dark](#forces-of-dark)
1. [Super Mobs](#super-mobs)
	1. [The Anaconda](/docs/smobs/anaconda.md)
	1. [The Ancient Spider](/docs/smobs/ancient-spider.md)
	1. [Bazarat](/docs/smobs/bazarat.md)
	1. [The Black Huorn](/docs/smobs/black-huorn.md)
	1. [The Black Serpent](/docs/smobs/black-serpent.md)
	1. [The Cold Drake](/docs/smobs/cold-drake.md)
	1. [The Enormous Bristly Spider](/docs/smobs/bristly-spider.md)
	1. [The Enormous Icy Spider](/docs/smobs/icy-spider.md)
	1. [The Fungal Abomination](/docs/smobs/fungal.md)
	1. [The Goblin King](/docs/smobs/goblin-king.md)
	1. [The Interloper](/docs/smobs/interloper.md)
	1. [The Kraken](/docs/smobs/kraken.md)
	1. [Lazora](/docs/smobs/fungal.md#Lazora)
	1. [Lunaron](/docs/smobs/lunaron.md)
	1. [Luurmag](/docs/smobs/luurmag.md)
	1. [Mauglir](/docs/smobs/mauglir.md)
	1. [The Mumak](/docs/smobs/mumak.md)
	1. [Muzgash the Emerald](/docs/smobs/muzgash.md)
	1. [The Pale Lady](/docs/smobs/pale-lady.md)
	1. [Rumblethump](/docs/smobs/rumblethump.md)
	1. [The Skeletal Knight](/docs/smobs/skeletal-knight.md)
	1. [Ungambar](/docs/smobs/ungambar.md)
	1. [Vaz](/docs/smobs/vaz.md)
	1. [The Warlock](/docs/smobs/warlock.md)
	1. [Kabaal Quest](/docs/smobs/kabaal/README.md)
		1. [Teff](/docs/smobs/kabaal/teff.md)
		1. [Omarr](/docs/smobs/kabaal/omarr.md)
		1. [Garvin](/docs/smobs/kabaal/garvin.md)
		1. [The Cowled Figure](/docs/smobs/kabaal/cowled.md)
		1. [Kabaal the Madman](/docs/smobs/kabaal/kabaal.md)
	1. [Vinyanost Tombs](/docs/smobs/tombs/README.md)
		1. [The Undead Necromancer](/docs/smobs/tombs/necromancer.md)
		1. [hi-Akallabeth](/docs/smobs/tombs/hi-akallabeth.md)
		1. [Bithdaur](/docs/smobs/tombs/bithdaur.md)
		1. [Mano](/docs/smobs/tombs/mano.md)
		1. [Puh](/docs/smobs/tombs/mano.md#puh)
		1. [Ar-Belzagar](/docs/smobs/tombs/ar-belzagar.md)
		1. [The Undead King](/docs/smobs/tombs/undead-king.md)
1. [References](#references)

## General Strategy

### Forces of Light

This strategy consists of a single warrior, often metal-clad, in a defensive
set with a rescue trigger--the latter being almost a necessity)--one or more
berserk warriors with two-handed weapons, and one or more clerics.

The defensive warrior hits the super mob, keeps the hitters rescued with his
triggers, and decides when and if the group retreats to heal.

The berserk warriors hit the super mob and re-assist whenever they have been
rescued. The berserk warrior with the highest OB keeps all bash-able mobs
bashed.

The cleric hallucinates, confuses, insights, and poisons--preferably in that
order--the super mob. The cleric then spends the entire fight fleeing,
returning, and re-hallucinating the super mob whenever that spell drops. For
most big super mobs, it is highly advisable not to try more than one consecutive
confuse attempt at a time. Instead, after one attempt, flee and re-hallucinate,
then try again.

If fleeing is a poor option, anyone, except the buffer, can disengage instead,
but this causes a small delay.

### Forces of Dark

Since the dark side of the war does not get rescue, the role of buffer is
effectively eliminated when killing super mobs that switch targets. Ignoring
super mob strategies focusing on mages, which are generally the same for both
sides of the war, a dark-side super mob group will consist of some number of
metal-clad hitters and some number of clerics.

The hitters, wearing metal, will go berserk and hit the super mob, splitting
the damage taken between them as the super mob switches targets.

The job of the cleric or clerics is standard; hallucinate, confuse, insight,
poison, and hallucinate/flee.

Note that this strategy is almost more effective for bashable super mobs,
simply because there is no delay and disengagement introduced by rescuing and
the damage taken is significantly reduced by keeping the super mob bashed.

## References

Thanks to Blent who authored much of this and posted it to the RotS Mud
[forum](http://rotsmud.informe.com/forum/super-mobs-strategies-dt25.html).
