# The Undead King

## Difficulty

A metal-clad buffer, three or more hitters, and a cleric should be able to
manage in one round. An additional hitter or two may be recommended. This mob
switches targets. Not bashable.

## Strategy

There are two rooms between Ar-Belzagar's area and the Undead King's room. In
these two rooms are five undead guards; they hit reasonably hard--such that
buffing all at once may not be a good move--track, and one of them loads the key
to the Undead King's room. If the group is small, the best plan is to have one
person lure them one-by-one into Ar-Belzagar's area and lock the gate,
separating it from the rest of the guards, and kill it solo. These mobs also
wander, although not too quickly, so it is possible to open the gate and let
them wander in one-by-one.

The Undead King himself is in a single room past these guards. There is one door
past him, a `mithrilgate`, which is a one-way passage back to the first floor of
the tombs. However, his sceptre unlocks this, so it is not possible to take this
route out unless he is dead or unless a member of the group already has a
sceptre.

This mob is straightforward, but incredibly hard-hitting. He can, and does,
severely wound through metal even while confused, so the buffer absolutely must
be wearing a metal set. The generic super mob strategy is all that is required
here, although if the group does not lure this mob to the entrance before
fighting, his guards north of him can repop, making a very bad situation for a
hallucinate/fleeing cleric. If the group chooses to fight this mob at the bottom
of the tombs, it is highly recommended to either wait for a repop on his guards
and rekill them before fighting the King, or to lure the King one or two gates
closer to the surface before fighting so that the cleric has room to
hallucinate/flee.

## Rewards

* [an ancient mithril breastplate](/items/armour.md#an-ancient-mithril-breastplate)
* [a long bone sceptre](/items/weapons.md#a-long-bone-sceptre)
