# Omarr

## Location

In the eastern part of the cave system where the troll matron loads. A hidden
exit below the grey spider leads into his area.

## Difficulty

It is highly recommended that this mob be killed mentally. Three or more
characters with curse, one being a full cleric, makes for a fairly easy run.

## Strategy

Once Teff is dead, find Mot some northeast from Osterin. Give him Teff's note,
`say yes` to him. Next, follow where he flees and pick up his key--this is used
to gain access to Omarr. Below the spider, by the troll matron, is a hidden
`trapdoor` and below this is a 2-room area with two hard-hitting but
low-hitpoint apprentices. Kill them, and in the southern room in this area is
the entrance to Omarr's 5-room area.

This area consists of a central room, with one room branching off in each
direction. In the central room stands Omarr, although he hunts within these
five rooms. Walking into any of these other rooms will result in being dealt a
small amount of damage, so be careful when fleeing. The group killing Omarr is
forced to enter one-by-one, as entering the central room causes the door to
close and lock. It is pickable from inside, although there is no key. Make sure
at least one person in the group has good pick skill or leave someone on the
other side of the door who can keep it open in case the run goes sour.

Omarr is a huge mage. As in, one fireball by him can take a high-hitpoint Dwarf
warrior from scratched to hurt. If this weren't bad enough, if you try to kill
him physically, once he drops below bloodied, he will unleash a shout of pain
every hit. Unless your group is suicidal, it is recommended that he be killed
mentally, which will not trigger his shout of pain barrage. Confuse is helpful,
although hallucinate is significantly more so.

The key when killing this mob is really to deal him mental-damage quickly enough
that his spells are interrupted. This is why it is recommended that the group
consist of at least three characters with curse. It is probably a good idea to
cast curse as often as possible, i.e. without waiting for your fatigue to drop
back to `0`. This, again, is because constant damage is more important than big
damage mental hits.

## Reward

Either [a dark runed mace](/items/weapons.md#a-dark-runed-mace) or
[a white mace](/items/weapons.md#a-white-mace) on Omarr.
